[TASK] Revise Mail API chapter (#2228)
TYPO3-Documentation/TYPO3CMS-Reference-CoreApi: Documentation/ApiOverview/Mail/Index.rst

TYPO3’s backend functionality already ships with a default layout for templated emails,
which can be tested out in TYPO3’s install tool test email functionality.

..  contents:: Table of Contents
    :depth: 1
    :local:

..  index::
    pair: Mail; Configuration
    TYPO3_CONF_VARS; MAIL
..  _mail-configuration:

Configuration
=============

Several settings are available via :guilabel:`Admin Tools > Settings > Configure
Installation-Wide Options > Mail` which are stored into
:php:`$GLOBALS['TYPO3_CONF_VARS']['MAIL']`. See :ref:`typo3ConfVars_mail` for
an overview of all settings.

..  _mail-configuration-format:

Format
------

:php:`$GLOBALS['TYPO3_CONF_VARS']['MAIL']['format']` can be `both`, `plain` or

> `html`. This option can be overridden by extension authors in their use cases.

Reviewer: Should it really be overridden in an Extension and not rather in the LocalConfiguration / Additional Configuration by administrators?

Author: Good catch.

        problems with sending emails to BCC recipients, check the above
        mentioned configuration.

..  _mail-configuration-mbox:

mbox
~~~~

:php:`$GLOBALS['TYPO3_CONF_VARS']['MAIL']['transport'] = 'mbox';`
    This doesn't send any email out, but instead will write every outgoing email
    to a file adhering to the `RFC 4155 mbox format
    <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc4155.html>`__, which is a simple text
    file where the emails are concatenated. Useful for debugging the email
    sending process and on development machines which cannot send emails to the
    outside. The file to write to is defined by:

:php:`$GLOBALS['TYPO3_CONF_VARS']['MAIL']['transport_mbox_file'] = '</abs/path/to/mbox/file>';`
    The file where to write the emails into. The path must be absolute.

..  _mail-configuration-classname:

<classname>
~~~~~~~~~~~

:php:`$GLOBALS['TYPO3_CONF_VARS']['MAIL']['transport'] = '<classname>';`
    Custom class which implements
    :php:`\Symfony\Component\Mailer\Transport\TransportInterface`.
    The constructor receives all settings from the ``MAIL`` section to make it
    possible to add custom settings.

..  _mail-validators:

> validators

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Validators
```

:php:`$GLOBALS['TYPO3_CONF_VARS']['MAIL']['templateRootPaths']` for sending the
HTML content. For sending plaintext content, a file :file:`TipsAndTricks.txt`
should exist.

Defining a custom email subject in a custom Fluid template:

..  code-block:: html

    <f:section name="Subject">New Login at "{typo3.sitename}"</f:section>

Building templated emails with Fluid also allows to define the language key,
and use this within the Fluid template:

..  code-block:: php

    $email = GeneralUtility::makeInstance(FluidEmail::class);
    $email
        ->to('contact@acme.com')
        ->assign('language', 'de');

In Fluid, you can now use the defined language key ("language"):

..  code-block:: html

    <f:translate languageKey="{language}" id="LLL:EXT:my_ext/Resources/Private/Language/emails.xml:subject" />

..  index:: Mail; MailMessage
..  _mail-mail-message:

Send email with `MailMessage`
-----------------------------

:php:`MailMessage` can be used to generate and send an email without using
Fluid:

..  code-block:: php
    :caption: EXT:site_package/Classes/Utility/MyMailUtility.php

    // Create the message

>     $mail = \TYPO3\CMS\Core\Utility\GeneralUtility::makeInstance(\TYPO3\CMS\Core\Mail\MailMessage::class);

Reviewer: Let's use "Use" statements, that greatly improves the  readability

    // Prepare and send the message
    $mail
        // Defining the "From" email address and name as an object
        // (email clients will display the name)
        ->from(new \Symfony\Component\Mime\Address('john.doe@example.org', 'John Doe'))

        // Set the "To" addresses
        ->to(
            new \Symfony\Component\Mime\Address('receiver@example.com', 'Max Mustermann'),
            new \Symfony\Component\Mime\Address('other@example.net')
        )

        // Give the message a subject
        ->subject('Your subject')

        // Give it the text message
        ->text('Here is the message itself')

        // And optionally an HTML message
        ->html('<p>Here is the message itself</p>')

        // Optionally add any attachments
        ->attachFromPath('/path/to/my-document.pdf')

        // And finally send it
        ->send()
    ;

> Or, if you prefer, don't concatenate the calls:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Or, if you prefer, do not concatenate the calls:
```

    // Attach file to message
    $mail->attachFromPath('/path/to/documents/privacy.pdf');

    // Optionally you can tell email clients to display a custom name for the file
    $mail->attachFromPath('/path/to/documents/privacy.pdf', 'Privacy Policy');

    // Alternatively attach contents from a stream
    $mail->attach(fopen('/path/to/documents/contract.doc', 'r'));

..  index:: Mail; Inline media
..  _mail-inline:

How to add inline media
=======================

Add some inline media like images in an email:

..  code-block:: php
    :caption: EXT:site_package/Classes/Utility/MyMailUtility.php

    // Get the image contents from a PHP resource
    $mail->embed(fopen('/path/to/images/logo.png', 'r'), 'logo');

    // Get the image contents from an existing file
    $mail->embedFromPath('/path/to/images/signature.png', 'footer-signature');

    // reference images using the syntax 'cid:' + "image embed name"
    $mail->html('<img src="cid:logo"> ... <img src="cid:footer-signature"> ...');

..  index::
    Mail; Default sender
    TYPO3_CONF_VARS; MAIL defaultMailFromAddress
..  _mail-sender:

How to set and use a default sender
===================================

> It is possible to define a default email sender ("From:") in the *Install Tool*:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is possible to define a default email sender ("From:") in 
:guilabel:`Admin Tools > Settings > Configure Installation-Wide Options`:
```
